.\" dutil - fgetln(3)
.TH FGETLN 3 "April 2010" "I/O Utilities" "Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.BR fgetln " -- get a complete line from an input stream."
.SH LIBRARY
dyersWeb utility library (libdutil, \-ldutil). The library
itself is built on
.SM ANSI C.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <dutils/dutil.h>

int
.BI "fgetln(char **" buf ", size_t *"sz ", size_t " maxsz ", FILE *"fp );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR fgetln (3)
function obtains a complete line from the input stream pointed to by
.IR fp .
All data will be included in the buffer, excluding the line terminator.
.PP
The
.I buf
parameter is a pointer to a
.B char*
buffer. If
.BI * buf
is a null pointer,
.BR fgetln (3)
will attempt to allocate initial storage for the line automatically.
However, if
.BI * buf
is not a null pointer, it is assumed that the caller has arranged for
the buffer to point to dynamic storage obtained by either
.BR malloc (3)
or
.BR calloc (3).
In this case, the
.I sz
parameter MUST point to a
.B size_t
object indicating how many bytes of storage the buffer initially
has allocated. If
.BR fgetln (3)
must obtain additional storage for the buffer, it will update the
object to which
.IR sz " points."
Regardless of whether or not the caller allocates storage for the
buffer, the caller MUST always free the buffer.
.PP
The
.I maxsz
parameter, when greater than zero, indicates the maximum amount of
memory, in bytes,
.BR fgetln (3)
is allowed to allocate. When increasing the storage for the buffer
would otherwise surpass the limit,
.B FGETLN_MAXSIZE
is returned (see below). However, if
.I maxsz
is
.BR zero ,
there is no artificial upper limit placed upon the maximum amount of
storage permitted for the buffer. Of course, you will always be at the
mercy of any limitations imposed by your OS/hardware.
.PP
The
.I fp
parameter is a pointer to a
.B FILE
object, which should represent an input stream opened with appropriate
permissions for reading.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful storage of a complete line,
.B 0
is returned. Otherwise, one of the return codes from
.B <dutils/dutil.h>
will be returned. The status codes will be of type
.BR int " (thus, may be negative)."

.B EOF
.RS
The value is the actual
.B EOF
macro, the behavior of which is currently defined by ISO/IEC 9899:1999
(C99). A value of
.B EOF
indicates that end-of-file has been reached or that an input error has
occurred. To determine which, use the Standard C
.BR feof "(3) and " ferror "(3) functions."
.PP
.RE
.B FGETLN_NOMEM
.RS
This is guaranteed to be a negative integer value. It indicates that
additional storage was unable to be obtained for the buffer. The
buffer's contents will remain intact and still must be freed by the
caller.
.PP
.RE
.B FGETLN_MAXSIZE
.RS
This is guranteed to be a positive, nonzero integer value. It only
applies when the
.I maxsz
parameter is nonzero; otherwise, no size limitations are imposed.
It indicates the maximum amount of memory has been allocated, and
would have been exceeded, according to the
.I maxsz
parameter. In this case, the
.B size_t
object pointed to by
.I sz
will be set to the maximum size specified by
.IR maxsz .
The buffer remains intact, and the caller still must free the storage.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.HP
Writing stdin to stdout:

while ((rc = fgetln(&buffer, &size, 0, stdin)) == 0)
    puts(buffer);

if (rc == FGETLN_NOMEM) {
    puts(buffer);
    fputs("<Unable to continue reading.>\\n", stderr);
}
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR malloc (3),
.BR calloc (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR fgets (3),
.BR dynstr_push (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2010  Curtis Dyer

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
02110-1301, USA.

The author may be contacted at:  <dyer85 a-t gmail dot com>

