.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <dutils/hexdumps.h>

void
.BI "vardump(void *" data ", size_t " n ", int " cols ", int " width );

void
.BI "fdump(FILE *" in ", int " cols ", int " width );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR vardump (3)
function outputs a hexdump representation of the memory of the object
pointed to by
.IR data ", whose size is denoted by " n ". " cols
specifies the amount of columns to use for each byte in the output. A
byte is defined as
.B CHAR_BIT
bits, which is defined in the Standard C header,
.BR <limits.h> .
The width between each column is specified by the
.IR width " parameter."
Memory will be allocated for the output of the byte columns and
character representations at runtime. If memory allocation fails, the
function outputs an implementation defined error message.

The
.BR fdump (3)
function outputs a hexdump representation of the stream pointed to by
.IR in .
The columns and the widths between them are handled by the
.IR cols " and " width " parameters, just as with"
.BR vardump (3).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.HP
Inspecting the memory representation of a double object:

double d = 3.1416;
int c = 8, w = 4;

vardump(&d, sizeof d, c, w);
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR assert (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2010  Curtis Dyer

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
02110-1301, USA.

The author may be contacted at:  <dyer85 a-t gmail dot com>

